
New Delhi:  Arvind Kejriwal, chief minister of Delhi, will today have to prove in the state legislature that his Aam Aadmi Party has the numbers to continue to govern Delhi. He is currently meeting leaders from his party at the Assembly.

AAP minister Manish Sisodia will move the motion seeking the trust of the House at 2 pm and Mr Kejriwal will make a speech. Voting is expected at about 5 pm.
HERE ARE THE 10 BIG DEVELOPMENTS IN THIS STORY:
To win the vote, Mr Kejriwal has to prove the support of 36 of the 70 members of the Delhi Assembly.
His AAP has 28; the Congress has said its eight law-makers will support him. (See the numbers)
The BJP, which has 31 members, has confirmed it will vote against Mr Kejriwal.
In the debate on the trust motion today, AAP will field six speakers, among them the party's youngest minister, 26-year-old Rakhi Birla.
Before they head to the Assembly for the crucial vote, AAP's 28 legislators, most of them first-timers, will meet with the chief minister to discuss floor strategy.
The seven-day session of the Delhi Assembly convened yesterday with the 70 newly elected MLAs, led by Chief Minister Kejriwal, taking oath.
Mr Kejriwal has been criticised by seasoned politicians for rushing out of the House soon after he took oath and not attending the rest of the sitting. Mr Kejriwal said he had work to do at the Delhi secretariat, where the state government is headquartered.
In the five days since he was sworn in chief minister, Mr Kejriwal has already announced free water, a 50 per cent cut in electricity tariffs, an audit of the three major power distribution companies in the capital and, in a late evening decision yesterday, new shelters for the homeless within 48 hours. (CAG to audit all three power firms in Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal)
The BJP has warned that the subsidy bonanza will mean higher taxes. "More subsidies lead to more taxes. A subsidy may prove counter-productive for more vulnerable sections," senior party leader Arun Jaitley has said. (Aam Aadmi Party's subsidy bonanza: eye on national polls?)
The Assembly will elect its Speaker and Deputy Speaker tomorrow. On Monday, Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung will address the Assembly and the session will close on Tuesday, January 7.